In addition to cleaning your data
to address data quality issues,
data preparation also includes
selecting features to use for analysis.
After this video, you will be able to
explain what feature selection involves,
discuss the goal of feature selection,
and list three approaches for
selecting features.
Feature selection refers to
choosing the set of features to
use that is appropriate for
the subsequent analysis.
The goal of feature selection is to come
up with the smallest set of features
that best captures the characteristics
of the problem being addressed.
The smaller the number of features used,
the simpler the analysis will be.
But of course,
the set of features used must include
all features relevant to the problem.
So, there must be a balance
between expressiveness and
compactness of the feature set.
There are several methods to
consider in selecting features.
New features can be added,
some features can be removed, features can
be re-coded or features can be combined.
All these operations affect the final
set of features that will be used for
analysis.
Of course some features
can be kept as is as well.
New features can be derived
from existing features.
For example, a new feature to specify
whether a student is in state or
out of state can be added based on
the student's state of residence.
For an application such
as college admissions,
this new feature represents an important
aspect of an application and so
would be very helpful
as a separate feature.
Another example is adding a feature
to indicate the color of a vehicle,
which can play an important role
in an auto insurance application.
Features can also be removed,
candidates for
removal are features
that are very correlated.
During data exploration,
you may have discovered that
two features are very correlated,
that is they change in very similar ways.
For example,
the purchase price of a product and
the amount of sales tax paid
are likely to be very correlated.
The higher the purchase price
the higher the sales tax.
In this case, you might want
to drop one of these features,
since these features have
essentially duplicate information.
And keeping both features makes
the feature set larger and
the analysis unnecessarily more complex.
Features with a high percentage of
missing values may also be good
candidates for removal.
The validity and
usefulness of features with a lot
of missing values are in question.
So removing may not result
in any loss of information.
Again these features would have
been discovered during the data
exploration step.
Irrelevant features should also
be removed from the data set.
Irrelevant features are those that
contain no information that is useful for
the analysis task.
An example of this is employee
ID in predicting income.
Other fields used simply for
identification such as row number,
person's ID, etc.,
are good candidates for removal.
Features can also be combined if the new
feature presents important information
that is not represented by looking at
the original features individually.
For example, BMI, which is body
mass index is an indicator of
whether a person is underweight,
average weight, or overweight.
This is an important feature to have for
a weight loss application.
It represents information about how much
a person weighs relative to their height
that is not available by looking at just
the person's height or weight alone.
A feature can be re-coded as
appropriate for the application.
A common example of this is when you
want to turn a continuous feature in to
a categorical one.
For example for a marketing application
you might want to re-code customer's age
into customer categories such as teenager,
young adult, adult and senior citizen.
So you would map ages 13 to 19 to
teenager, ages 20 to 25 to young adult,
26 to 55 as adult and over 55 as senior.
For some applications you may want
to make use of finery features.
As an example, you might want a feature to
capture whether a customer tends to buy
expensive items or not.
In this case, you would want a feature
that maps to one for a customer with
an average purchase price over a certain
amount and maps to zero otherwise.
Re-coding features can also
result in breaking one feature
into multiple features.
A common example of this is to
separate an address feature
into its constituent parts street address,
city, state and zip code.
This way you can more easily
group records by state, for
example, to provide
a state by state analysis.
Future selection aims to select
the smallest set of features to best
capture the characteristics of
the data for your application.
Know from the examples represented
that domain knowledge once again place
a key role in choosing
the appropriate features to use.
Good understanding of the application is
essential in deciding which features to
add, drop or modify.
It should also be noted that feature
selection can be referred to as feature
engineering, since what you're doing here
is to engineer the best feature set for
your application.